# PCHEPA v1.3 User Guide

Replace the filters as needed with Nyemo H12 / Nyemo TT-AP006 filters; here's an [Amazon link][amaz_nyemo].

## Disassembly

To change filters or replace batteries, you'll need to disassemble the filter:
1. turn off the filter, disconnect it from external power, remove any shoulder strap
2. pull the two halves apart
  - gripping the base halves by the battery tunnel mouth can be a good place to start
  - a pry tool may be necessary
  - NOTE: this may fatigue and break the joiner clips over time, having spare clips on hand may be necessary for reassembly
  - NOTE: disconnect the B-side fan from the splitter cable once the halves separate far enough to allow access
3. slide each wall section out of each half
  - this goes best by pushing gently on 1 section at a time, alternating top/bottom edge, to walk it through its slot
  - gently twisting the filter assembly (cover vs base) can also help at times
4. disconnect the power module / pack
  - there should be a pair of wires connecting the base and cover plates joined with a JST connector
5. release the filter from each plate, using the central finger notch to help flex its outer ring

Reassembly should be relatively a similar reversing those steps.
When doing so, be careful not to pinch any cables when sliding the halves back together.
In particular, for filters before v1.3, the rear cover port fan cables can be problematic.

If for any reason you need to access the fans, an H2 metric wrench or driver is required.

## Portable Variant

### v1.3 18650 Battery Pack

Simply plug in any USB power source to charge, works with any broadly available USB 5v power source.

This battery pack is based around 2 18650 cells
- in testing with 2 9900mAh@3.7v cells
- and the 2 Noctua NF-P12 fans drawing around 250mA at 12V
- we typically get between 4 and 5 hours of runtime

In contrast to v1.2's battery bank:
- no external patch cable is needed
- running while charging is simple: just one port
- no standby shutoff mode when left off or at low speed

If the battery runtime degrades, the battery cells may be replaced with any widely 18650 compatible cells.

### v1.2 Battery Bank

To connect the battery to the power port, a small [USB-C patch cable][amaz_usbc_patch] with a 90-degree works well.

**NOTE**: after being turned off (via the speed knob) and left for some time, the power system will shut itself off fully to prevent vampire draining;
if the unit does not turn on by the knob anymore, simply unplug/replug the USB-C patch cable from the power port.

The internal battery bank will charge fastest over its USB-C port (right side), but can also be charged from its mini USB-A port (middle).
When charging from such a USB-A source, the fans will likely spin much slower than usual, as most USB-A sources provide only 5v.

The battery bank used is [USUIE 12V DC Power Bank][amaz_usuie_12v_bank]; it should have about 8 hours of runtime at full power, but sometimes in testing it only ran for about 5 hours.

To run the fans from external power, e.g. while charging the battery bank, a USB-C adaptor capable of providing 12V is necessary.
Higher wattage adaptors may implement the 12v mode, but sadly are not required to,
so there may be a fair amount of trial and error involved finding a suitable power source.

The shoulder strap designed for is this one: [shoulder strap][amaz_shoulder_strap] ;
hopefully the anchor holes may also work with other likely messenger bag straps.

## More

See toplevel project [README](../README.md) or the [build guide][build_guide] for more.

[amaz_nyemo]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B08Z32BDJY
[amaz_shoulder_strap]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07P3LCZXN
[amaz_usbc_patch]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0B6BLQJ8B
[amaz_usuie_12v_bank]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0CNGM4V32
[build_guide]: https://github.com/jcorbin/pchepa/blob/main/build_guide.md
